[Music]
This episode is just 38. 38. 38. Jesus Christ.
Climbing. Climbing the numbers.
Gonna be, uh, I think hard to follow up episode 37.
Old disclosure, I don't remember anything about 37.
I don't need it right now.
It was our doom and gloom episode.
Modulate to Stoke. Yeah, yeah.
Where we kind of laid it on about the situation of like components and modular in general.
I don't know how we went down that road, like that wasn't the plan,
but we just kind of ended up going down that road and it got kind of doomy.
It was the WMD announcement because we talked about that.
Yeah, that's right. That's what tripped it off. Yeah.
And I guess we struck a nerve a bit. We got some retweets and some mentions out there.
Yeah. That's good. In the worldwide web.
Unfortunately though, this is not like the sort of plot twist or, you know,
the hero arc of redemption. I mean, it's not like a lot has changed significantly
in that time since that last episode.
No. I mean, it's only like, oh, the chips are raining from the sky.
It's still pretty bad.
Yeah. A few more companies announced they're stopping since the last episode,
which was only what? Maybe three months ago, tops.
Yeah, two or three. Yeah. Maybe two.
Be able, I think, live stock, electronic shutdown.
They weren't like a bigger player. They made like the maze.
Do you remember that? Like it was the matrix thing.
Yeah, maybe one or two others.
Hexenburder. I don't remember.
Hexenburder. Yeah. I don't think we mentioned that one.
Yeah. I think that was between them.
And that was also the, you know, the, that's it for the, the mind phaser.
Yeah. What was the estimate?
Two hundred fifty of them. And that was, there are 250 of those on earth.
And I was always, I was always really intrigued by it. Like not to the point where I got it.
It took a lot of space. Yeah.
But as far as like a sound and a complex oscillator, it was always one of the things
if I came across one. Yeah. I remember it was like your Easter egg.
We had a hunt for it. Nobcon. Like two years in a row.
Oh, right.
Catch a glimpse of it. Speaking of which, Nobcon just happened.
Apparently some stuff happened. Apparently it was a, it was not a good one for us to have missed.
Yeah. Look like a banger.
Yeah. Yeah. And we missed out.
And even, I think last time I said like, oh, smaller manufacturers list.
And then the last time I looked at it, it was like just as big as ever.
And so it seemed like it was a good time.
And some announcements.
Yeah.
Like big list of manufacturers and people presenting a smaller crowd, I guess,
due to obvious reasons. Right.
Which would have been enjoyable for me.
Yeah.
You know, we'd have been able to actually spend like some quality time with some of the stuff there.
It's kind of bummed. We missed it.
Travel so pricey.
Yeah. And I wasn't boosted at that point.
I wasn't boosted and I was still sick.
Yeah. So like now that I'm boosted, I'm like way more, I mean way more into it.
But at the time I was a little bit like, I'm not really super excited about going to a bunch of like,
basically disease vectors. Yeah.
Converging in one spot.
The con crud. Right.
Yeah. It was like the week after camp out for me too.
So I was like, I'm not going anywhere.
But yeah, the online documentation of it looked like a good one.
It did. Yeah.
Yeah. There was a few things there that caught my eye.
The thought actually in my notes, no con announcements.
I know there was a couple of things where I was like, yeah.
Was it the new, I don't know if the new Roland TR 8S or TR6S firmware was announced on that.
I think Roland was there.
I think it was. Yeah.
Something else was announced. I can't remember what it was.
The, was it the Corg drum machine?
Maybe that might have been around that time.
Yeah. It was around that time.
Yeah. Well, which I forget the name of already.
Drum log. Drum log.
Yeah. This is like the monologue or whatever they had.
The meaning log monologue.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, the drum log looks interesting.
I don't know if I'm going to run out and get it.
But I have an eye keeping, keeping my eye on.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. See where it goes.
The main thing that caught my eye there was the mod-bap trinity.
Right, right.
There was a couple recordings of like, you know,
mod-bap describing what it can do.
And then there was like a couple one-on-one recordings people made of it.
So real quick though, what is this?
Yeah. What is that?
It's a three-channel drum synth module that really has my attention.
It's digital, right?
I think it's entirely digital, but I know one of the models is meant to replicate analog drum.
Cool.
Like, you know, you can get your T08, 808 style sounds out of it and such.
But like, the other models are definitely digital.
Like, you got some FM, you have like physical modeling, things like that.
So what about it caught your eye?
Like, why are you fired up for it?
The fact that it's multiple drums in one, it was interesting.
That's, it's not a super cheap module.
It's like 550, I think, is the retail, but like, you're getting three drums out of it.
And it has built-in like mixing saturation.
The fact that it's can do so many different models, really catches my eye.
Like, that's what used to appeal to me about like the BIA, for example.
Yeah, I mean, you could get some, you could work some kick sounds out of it,
hat sounds, you know, cussive stuff.
Like it was a versatile module, but creating an array of them, like I did for a minute
to try and function as a drum machine.
Super fucking expensive.
Right.
Very.
Yeah.
So we compared to something like the LXR module though,
which sounds like that also would do a lot of what you've just described.
I think the LXR is a good competitor, for sure, and I was close to buying it.
But you have a lot more dedicated CV on the Trinity than appeals to me.
It looks like you could really do some interesting sound design on this thing.
And also the range of it, like the audio range that was in some of those demos
sounded really good to my ears.
Like the kick can go super low, super beefy, and then all the way up to like,
you know, weird, percussive sounds and things like that.
The LXR kind of lacks that CV ability.
Yeah.
You get more drums out of the LXR, like double the amount of drums for roughly the same price.
But I feel like the Trinity is way more versatile.
Yeah.
So I was really stoked on that.
And just the models sounded good to my ears.
You know, like there wasn't any sounds coming out of it that I didn't like,
which is rare for a drum module.
Oh, absolutely.
You know, most of the drum modules out there that I've played with or have heard,
like I'm not going to be using like 60% of the sounds usually.
Especially when you have that sort of first reveal video or a couple of clips.
Normally those first ones are the least appealing for the three of us at least.
It makes me think like a LXR that's just two drums in a slimmer module,
like less price, that would be amazing.
That would actually probably satisfy me for the LXR.
Yeah.
And as, you know, we've all discussed here, like you
you were diving deeper into drums and module.
I was kind of backing out.
Right.
And doing most of them in box and in VCB or act lately,
Trinity has kind of pulled me back in.
So real quick question about the Trinity.
It's three channels.
Are they identical or do they have distinct different like capabilities?
Could you make like what you just said?
Could you just make three of the same drums?
You can make three of the same or three completely different sounds.
Oh, cool.
They can all be routed out of the sub mix or they can all have dedicated outs.
For both.
That is nice.
Yeah.
For both.
So you could send like a sub mix of everything through like an effect while having the direct
outs all being processed differently.
Like that was super appealing to me.
Is it stereo?
I don't think it's stereo.
I think so.
But you could easily like start to make things stereo with all those
maximum capabilities like this.
Um, yeah.
And just like the way it has like dedicated like character knobs,
it seemed to just add different textures to the model, you know, and it can all be
C.
C.V.
Every channel has like dedicated C.V.
As compared to like the LXR where I think you only have like four.
Yeah.
You have to figure out where you're rallying.
You have to rally between what six, seven drum voices.
You know, so yeah, the flexibility of it really caught my eye.
I have it on pre-order currently and that's going to be my gateway back into modular drums.
So we'll see how that goes.
Seems like similar in spirit to the Winter Modular Collab one, you know.
Yeah, which still isn't out.
Oh, that's still not that I was going to ask.
I was like, oh, did you ever try that?
No, I thought like I've been waiting for over a year now for that to come out.
The, um, shit, what was it?
Zaps.
Yeah.
That was like three or four episodes ago.
That was a while.
I forgot about that.
It's funny because I posted like on Reddit on the module.
I think someone was asking about the Westlake performer or the, um, eloquencer.
And I commented on there as like one of the most uploaded things or whatever.
And it was like, oh, like that's a dead project.
They have an updated day.
Like they had this pre pandemic build and just yesterday, and this was like half a year ago
that I posted this, someone replied to my comment and they were like, hey, a bunch of us have like
taken over that project or something like that.
And they're going to be updates coming soon.
And I was like, oh, interesting.
So I don't know if like Winter Modular like gave that code to somebody because they,
they were super cagey about releasing source code and they were just like, oh, yeah, just
seemed to be like a neglected stepchild for a while there.
Totally.
For years, it hasn't had updates even though he's like, oh, I've got these builds with all
this stuff, just one more feature.
So we'll see.
Maybe they'll give it some love.
Had a lot of promise.
Are they putting it up on GitHub or open source?
No idea.
It was like a really big comment.
Okay.
Like one sentence, not much detail.
Yeah, originally I was super excited about that zap.
You know, I mean, you're the same.
Really.
There's a lot of CV capability.
You could save snapshots and then CV between them, things like that.
You can't do that with Trinity exactly.
I don't think you might be able to save your drums.
I think you can, but I don't think you can see the like change them.
Right.
But even still like with the amount of CV that it has like, you know, that's really
appealing to me.
And you can just shape what you want.
And Zaps was only like one voice whereas like this is three.
I thought Zaps was multi interesting.
I'm sure you're right.
That's a big module for one voice.
Yeah.
So is this out?
Is it coming soon?
Is it pre-ordered?
Like I, I don't know the state of this.
Expected delivery, I think was early November.
So about a month away, roughly two months.
Yeah.
And what was the company?
What company is it now?
Well, I have no idea.
They talked over now.
Modbap.
Gotcha.
I think it is October because I'm drinking a beer that is a normally white and black.
It's orange and black.
Yes.
Look at that spooky.
Signifying that it's probably October.
And wait a minute.
It is.
No.
Well, it's on pumpkin ale day.
It's a pumpkin spice.
It's a pumpkin ale.
It's actually not bad.
It's by a local brewery.
I bet it is spicy.
Oh, there's a little bit.
There's like a like, almost like a molasses type taste.
But it's not like, it's not like, cloyingly sweet or anything.
It's like making my stomach hurt just looking at it.
Yeah, it's not, it's not one of those.
You, you, I bet there's more than enough.
Nah, I'm good.
Be sure.
I'm going to keep drinking my nasty tea.
What if this is the thing that actually clears up all of your illness?
It's just curious to me.
Yes.
But in any case, yeah, I think it's October.
And you're so it's actually pretty soon or ETA soon.
Yeah.
It seems like there's a bunch of stuff coming down the pipe for October
and November.
I mean, hopefully it was a real and not just optimistic.
Yeah.
Projections.
Yeah, because I'm excited to try it.
Any guesses on the new IntelliJail?
Cascadia?
No.
Guess in a delay.
Just by the nature of the name.
I think you're probably onto something there.
Especially because the announcement came right as like,
Cubit announced their new delay that I forget the name of already.
It is the Nautilus.
I have not.
I have notes on the Nautilus.
Yeah.
Because I am very excited about that.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
If IntelliJail did a new delay,
I'm guessing it'll be like a more user-friendly rainmaker.
I would think so.
I would hope so.
Don't go over now.
Yeah.
We'll see.
And they don't have many effects now that I think about.
No.
They have like the spring reverb one.
But like not too many.
They don't have like a reverb or like a--
They do the one you.
Like a one-use delay.
It can be a chorus delay or reverb.
And I've always been annoyed that that doesn't exist in 3U.
Because it sounds like the perfect basic utility effect.
And it's cheap.
I'm like, yeah, I would have like four of those in my rack if they existed as 3U.
I don't have a fancy 1U rail.
Wouldn't the 1U become fancy?
Oh, it's fancy.
And not just a random throw-out.
You have high brow, high end Cadillac case drivers.
With your fancy 1U's.
And you're a little more--
And you're self-driving technology.
Your heated seat subscription.
Heated modular tile.
Wow.
I just have old school clunky ass dope for
P9 cases.
I've heated patchcables.
Circa 2000.
Each one has a little 9-volt battery.
It's a really unwieldy system now.
But so cozy.
Oh, yeah.
And I get an alert whenever I'm working on sounds like shit.
It calls me and says, listen, this is your--
What are you doing, Dave?
This is your IntelliJel OnStar assistant.
We're going to have to ask you to stop.
This is that sounds terrible.
We're going to have to ask you to take that oscillator out of that filter.
Exactly.
It is not a good pick.
It just speaks to you like how 9,000--
Yes.
Afraid I can't do that, Dave.
Just start shutting your modules off.
Afraid I can't stand this anymore, Dave.
Also, it's just the computer voice for my cats.
[LAUGHTER]
Fuck.
But yeah, no.
Circling back around IntelliJel does not have a huge stable of effects.
I don't know.
The weird teaser way of announcing something like that is a little weird.
Like, sure, it's gotten us talking about it, but it's kind of like--
Dude, just show us the panel and sound demos.
Hate it when they-- if you want to tease for like three to five business days,
then go right ahead.
But I just hate when the electron's style, where it's like two months later.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Here's a button pad.
It's like, fuck.
I'm not into that at all.
It doesn't-- yeah, it doesn't get me hyped.
It gets me more annoyed.
Yeah.
It makes me want to not pay attention to it.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm like, no, fuck you.
Also, as a--
Trying to tease me.
As a kid, I remember that was a big thing of the build.
Board that just had like a single word on it.
Right.
And it was like that sort of like artificial hype generator thing.
And I'm like, and it was like, oh, what is it?
It's so mysterious.
I have no idea what it is.
And it was like some Chanel perfume or something.
Yeah, something--
I had no interesting, but like, it always got me.
I'm like, oh, it's just a black billboard with like two words in the--
in the middle of it.
I'm like, oh, what could it be?
It's calming.
Like, oh, fuck.
What could that be?
And then, yeah, it didn't turn out to be.
It's something dumb.
So I have a knee jerk reaction against.
I need an attempt to like capture that.
Um, that spirit.
It'd be cool if it was even just more upfront.
Like, we have a new effect coming.
Like, don't buy like any effects until this comes out.
It's like, OK, cool.
Maybe I wore it like fuck, qubit.
Yeah.
Coming out with a delay too.
Yep.
Just do it.
Just wait.
We're going to blow it out of the water.
I mean, it's funny you say water,
because it's monoliths and sort of water themed dish.
Yeah.
So I was not--
I wasn't super interested at first.
Because I was like, yeah, I don't need like a delay network thing.
And like, the qubit Aurora was like interesting,
but like wasn't necessarily for me.
Um, and then there was just more and more of these sound demos.
And they, they posted them on their site and they were linking to them.
I'm like, fuck, if that doesn't sound good.
Like, I'm like, this is actually really interesting.
And then the thing that really, um, sort of made me like,
my ears perk up and take notice is they've got this,
uh, it's called the sonar output.
And it's gates and CVs that are output
from Nautilus based on all of the weird sort of internal logic that it has.
I missed that.
Yeah.
And that's the thing.
I'm like, oh, shit.
So you can like, as this like network of--
And it's, um, it's eight--
It's a stereo delay and it's eight, these eight lines sort of working.
And you've got control over how they interact and like,
how much saturation and how much depth and all of these sort of things.
But as it's making it sort of, um, decisions and processing over time,
spitting out CV and gate.
And I don't have a good--
It's a little mysterious right now.
I don't know what the logic behind it is.
But I have to admit there's something about the idea of like,
actually having that sort of hook into this delay network.
Right.
Like, is it a series of like fixed comparators or different voltage levels or something?
They don't know.
Like, or is it like two lines cross and that's a gate or--
Or--
I don't know.
But it, um, it sort of like, peaked my curiosity in this way of like,
what could I do?
What could I do with that?
Because I don't remember any sort of delay line processor
that had this sort of vomiting of its internals on that.
Plays to your recent like, leebniz kind of a obsession.
Yes.
The verbose, um, multi-delay kind of does that.
Like, it has individual tap outs and also like,
the envelope followers for each tap.
I think that's the only thing that--
Which is cool.
I mean, that's also something amazing too.
Yeah.
Or the spectral sputnik that I have will generate like, um, envelope based on frequency bands.
Oh, nice.
So like, which is really cool.
So as I like sort of like looked into this more,
one thing that like gave me a little bit of pause is that the settings for this
is all done through a web app that generates a file.
Yeah.
And then you put that onto the USB that goes in the front.
It's front facing, but there was just like,
there was a split second when I was like, oh fuck, I already have a number of things now that have like,
web interface configuration and shit.
And I'm like, do I really want one more fucking thing that's like,
I gotta go to a website to configure and that's only like,
as of right now, the only thing is like kind of, and it's also a little crazy.
It's like 400 bucks.
Yeah.
For a delay.
It's up that puts it up there with like the verbose and the rainmaker.
Or some badass delay pedals that have CV.
Exactly.
So this is not a casual purchase.
Like if it was half the price or like 150,
if you want to think, so like, I'm going to at least give it a shot.
So now I'm kind of like, I'm on the fence and also it doesn't exist yet.
So until I actually see it, I'll believe it.
I kind of didn't, I wasn't sold on it.
Like, I think the nautilus sort of like most qubit modules that I've played with
kind of has like a plasticy bucket sound.
Like, I don't know how to describe it, but like almost every qubit module I've ever owned,
I end up not liking it because it has this like tone that I just can't describe other than.
I know what you're exactly.
Like being in a plastic bucket.
Yeah.
It's fucking weird.
And it always kind of annoys me.
And I noticed in the demos with nautilus that it's like present more than ever to my ears.
I was just like, okay, this all sounds like plastic to me.
Yeah.
Wow.
No, I did not pick that up, but now I will have my ears peeled.
Because the Aurora is kind of like that too.
But I think on the default firmware, it kind of works in its favor for that kind of spectrally
shit. But the moment I tried that like feedback delay network reverb, it was like,
I was repulsed by it almost.
Like, oh, this like doesn't sound like, I was trying to use it in the live context to it.
I'm like, okay, this isn't, it's kind of regular, but it just didn't sound quite right to me.
Like the effects aid was immediately better and more like what my ears were looking for.
And I switched it back to the Aurora and was like, okay, cool.
And now it's like what I want.
But I don't, yeah, I don't know.
I don't know about their effects like you're saying.
Yeah, well, even like, what was it?
The nebula that I had from it.
Everything came out of that sounding plasticy too.
It was kind of annoying to me.
The, yeah, I agree.
The default mode of Aurora was like the only time that I felt like that plastic sound worked okay.
Yeah.
And like, you know, was ignorable to me, but everything else always sounds plasticy.
I don't know why I don't know how else to describe it, but it's just kind of like there to my ears.
Well, now I'm going to add that to the list of cons on my list of present cons.
Yeah.
It's just going to say plastic bucket.
Plastic bucket.
Do you have a list of cons other than price?
No, just price and the web setting app outside of that.
Yeah.
I thought it sounded good.
What if things seems like you could probably just kind of set it and forget it?
Maybe, you know, it's not something you had.
I'm hoping that's the case.
Yeah.
Going back to it often.
And if it really ends up being just like low level stuff that I'm not changing that often,
it won't be that big of a deal.
And honestly, it's not a big con.
The big one is just that that's a lot of money.
I already have two effects aids and maybe that $400 could go somewhere else, but...
Sure.
And the sound of shadows, no.
Yeah, and the sound of shadows.
But I have to admit the sonar output.
And again, you're right.
This is probably just my...
My lead knits.
I've been neck deep and lead knits for a month or two now.
Just anything that's randomly setting out,
Gates and CV is going to catch my attention.
That's what I'm into right now.
Cool.
Yeah.
I'm curious to hear how you drive with it.
I mean, it's not a done deal.
Yeah.
But I do like drinking and I do make dodgy purchases while I'm drunk.
So, I've ever talked about the time that I went on an Etsy tabletop war game,
Terrain, Spree.
We're playing this game, Rangers of Shadow Deep.
And it needs tabletop terrain, like trees and rocks and sort of stuff.
Grass.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you can get away with not having grass.
You can have like a big matte top soil...
Fire hydrant with a dog humping it.
You do need the fire hydrant with a dog humping it.
But I'm like, I'm going to get a couple things.
I was like, I'm going to get a tiny little house and maybe some fence and a rock.
And basically, I got blackout drunk and just started buying anything.
It was all from different Etsy sellers.
So, I'm like, you know what?
I'm not even going to look to see what I bought.
It was for like three weeks every day I'd go out and like,
"Oh, here's more shit out every later."
This is again.
Exactly.
Here's more shit I evidently ordered.
So now I've got like a fucking like small village.
That's kind of awesome.
So that is how I imagine I'm going to end up with a cubit nautilus.
Nice.
That's how I ended up with a few things while I was sick.
Like, I was wasn't sleeping because I was just coughing my brains out all night.
And I'll jacked up on whatever the fuck they put in and that breathing
treatment shit they gave me and steroids in the whole nine yards.
So I was just like...
Plus all the cold medicine.
Like I was just on another fucking planet for like two weeks straight.
And then the same deal.
I would come down, check my mail, and then all of a sudden there was like a new module box.
I'm like, what am I doing?
You know what I mean?
It was like, I was trying not to buy anything but ended up with some shit.
Other Greg is making this difficult for me to pay my bills this month.
Yes.
Other Greg is having a great time, but other Greg is becoming a problem.
Very much so.
And then I had to remember that I will have hospital bills coming and shit too.
And I was like, no, I really shouldn't be buying shit right now.
In fact, I even had to cancel my Perkins pre-order.
Oh, unfortunately.
Because of that.
I was like, all the hospital bills added up to like the cost of a Perkins pretty much.
And I was like, well, there's my Perkins.
So what number in the Perkins line at Sweetwater did you rise up to?
I think 111.
No, so you made some moves.
Yeah.
I was getting up there and...
But actually I heard that those are getting delayed even further.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So I don't fully regret it.
It sounds like they're not...
It's nebulous now that they will even ship out in November.
Yeah.
So...
And I think I also saw that a couple of places got a shipment of pulsars and like restock of pulsars.
Yeah.
I think they're competing.
And like we called it whenever Perkins was first announced.
Right.
It seems to be that way right now.
Like the most...
Most people compare like, I'm going to spend two grand on all your dumb machine.
Yeah.
Is it going to be Perkins or is it going to be Paul Sar?
But it did seem like Paul Sar was like, but we're actually here.
Yes, really.
If you have the...
That's true.
You're in line for that other thing.
We got this actually available.
You can actually buy this.
There was a grip of pulsars that showed up used to right when like Perkins supposedly started like shipping out.
That's a lot of people were curious to try the other side of the street.
Right.
Fadeski Mastering.
V-A-R-E-S-C-H-I-Mastering.com.
I'm done with this project and sounds bad.
What do I do?
How about Vadeski Mastering?
That's cool.
Philippe will work with you to get you where you want your sound to fucking go.
V-A-R-E-S-C-H-I-Mastering.com.
Philippe will help you with your sonic issues.
So, Nick, do you have anything on your list?
Yes.
Speaking of drum machines, the TR6S, which was kind of a probably somewhat altered Amazon purchase because
they popped up.
They're normally like 500 bucks.
And I was always like, cool.
It's like mini TR8S, which I've had and sold.
But I missed.
I liked playing live shows with it, compliments the rhythm really well.
And they were selling for like 260 bucks for like a week on Amazon.
Yeah, that feels kind of insane.
It was ridiculous.
I'm so psyched I went for it because I love it.
I'm bummed that I missed it.
Same here.
I knew about it, Russ, and posted about it and all this stuff.
And I basically did the thing of like, oh, I should get that.
But then didn't get drunk enough to actually make the purchase.
Yeah.
Actually have it.
Oh, shit.
That's a cute show in my bag.
Like if I am hanging out.
That's so horrible.
First off, the case for or the lid.
Yeah, a little deck saver.
That is really fucking nice.
Deck savers are great.
Then you don't need to get another bag and you can just throw it in your book bag.
But I fucking love the TR6S, dude, especially since the latest updates with the FM
drum.
Yeah.
And the probability.
That almost got me to buy another TR8S.
Yeah.
But I was like, I don't want, I can't spend that money right now.
Oh, I like this more.
I think it's like the perfect size.
It's like things are literally like closer for your hands if you want to edit it.
So real quick for our listeners, can you give us the elevator pitch as to what this is?
Oh, yeah.
So this is the Roland TR6S which came out after the TR8 and then TR8S.
So it's like a baby TR8S that actually just has fewer channels.
I forget how many are on the TR8S.
Do you still have one?
No.
Yeah.
This one just has six.
And it just has one group of three knobs to edit.
So it's kind of like soft knob style.
You like select the drum you want, pick the thing.
Other than that, you can even, I think, load like, I don't know.
I think you can load TR8S stuff and it'll just truncate it at six channels.
But it's the same thing.
Same synthesis engine.
Sounds fantastic.
It's a little different in that it's powered from USB, no AC adapter.
But that's fine.
The one thing I realized is like, oh, it's nice.
I can power this by the IntelliJell tile in my modular,
but there's a ground loop hum with that.
So I've got like, roll with a phone charger, which is just fine.
It's got full size MIDI in and out, which is great.
Quarter inch outputs in an SD card.
And that's pretty much it.
So it's like stripped down.
Looks like just one pair of outputs compared to like TR8S.
No individual outs.
I know there's a dedicated headphone.
There is dedicated eighth inch headphone in the front.
I use all the time.
There's no tap button, but you can just shift tap this.
Like it's really not bad to edit.
You can shift edit anything.
The editing capability on the little screens cool.
Honestly, I think it's like one of the coolest thing to like make full tracks with even
like portable in your bag because it's like you get little synth sounds.
They neuter a little bit.
You can't pitch by note the samples and you can do that on the TR8S, I think.
And on the MC 101 and 707, you can't really do it on this.
They have a lookup table with like this parameter corresponds to like this pitch roughly.
It would be really nice if you could like pitch things on this, this little keyboard,
it would be killer.
What's on the screen?
I see there's a screen at the top.
What does that do?
That's all your editing parameters, like all the effects you're going to pick.
Like that's how you go about editing the drums and the FM stuff and any other drum models.
So you can just shift that and it's over here.
Yeah, that's what made me sell the 8S ultimately.
Trying to edit everything through that tiny little monochrome.
Yep, it was driving me kind of crazy.
And it's not like the MC 707 at least had a bigger screen than had a little more information.
It's still a little divey, but even like for my purposes, I'm like using this live to layer
on top of the rhythm for the most part.
And like it's just like the 808 909 stuff and some other drums.
The little sliders are super rad live when I practice with it.
Like I'm really psyched on the output seems a little low to me.
I don't know why like compared to the rhythm, which has more volume.
But once you get that like dialed in, I see there's an SD card in the back.
What what are you saving loads from that?
So you can load like your I think just sample transport.
I think you can export setups onto it too and then load them from there.
It's really cool.
I love it with the rhythm.
I think it sounds perfect.
Between this analog rhythm and the squid sample, I'm like, I can get any kind of drum flavor I really
want for the most part.
Really, really satisfied with it.
I'd like the eight variations.
Somehow for me, it seems like easier to use than the TR8s.
I don't know why.
How do you do the variations?
Like I don't see the little pattern.
It's missing.
You just hit like shift and go over here or shift and variation.
And then these light up and you can just toggle between them or like group them together.
So it's really easy to dupe stuff and make variations.
It's another thing that you can like save while it's running to and like it doesn't stop.
So I can save my whole live set right now.
Like while it's running, it's just cool.
It can keep going, which I dig.
Can you do any ratcheting or micro stuff stuff on there?
You can do micro step.
They have like sub steps is the version on here.
And then you can kind of change how those work.
Can you program like a role basically?
Yes.
That's what the sub steps do.
And if you get triplet, there's some configurability within that.
I forget how.
I wish these pads were a little bigger.
Like you can hit them live, but I bet I'm going to fuck it up live maybe.
Do you mind if I hit one?
I mean, they're nice though.
Not velocity sensitive.
So you don't get velocity sensitivity.
I was able to isolate to just one and I got big beefy hands.
So it wasn't too bad.
From here, it looks like it might be kind of tiny.
Yeah, but you can still manage.
Like it's really not that bad.
And I think I have the circuit tracks too.
This is actually more fun just to like sit on the couch with and play for me.
I don't know.
They're drawing modeling on here sounds really good.
It's a lot more satisfying for me than the MC-707 was with just the sample based approach.
No.
Oh wait, can you?
Oh yeah, no, I'm sorry.
You can definitely power with batteries.
Battery?
Yeah, that's awesome.
Gotta have them in here.
That is cool.
So it's pretty portable.
They did a great job with this.
I think it's at first I thought it was stupid.
And I was like, why do they make that small little thing?
And I know exactly why.
Especially for 260 bucks.
That is like the fucking most powerful drum machine you can get for that money.
So does that price no longer exist then?
It's not that I've seen.
It was like a couple days and I'm so glad I went for it because the next day it was gone.
What's it like on reverb right now?
I think they go like three to 400.
You can probably get them like 300 on reverb.
They're like 400 retail.
And boom, that sounds so good.
260 dollars I would snag one for sure.
All's good.
Automation.
Yeah, yeah.
It's incredible.
Like a really...
I kind of thought that would be like the new price.
You know what I mean?
That's what I thought you said that was a price.
I'm like, okay, cool.
I'll scoop one maybe someday.
Because it was right when the new OS dropped.
Right.
And it was the official like roll-in store on Amazon.
And they had a few other stores that dropped prices to compete.
But then they went like right back up.
Yeah, like you're saying even as like something to take to the cabin.
You know, like on a road trip jam or something.
It's in the back very nicely.
Yeah, like I can take it somewhere and still make progress on the lives that are still
make like a very satisfying beat.
I have a problem with the circuit tracks.
It's just not like super satisfying to use ever.
It's cool and I'm going to probably put more time into it over time.
But like this is just so much more fun.
Super fucking useful.
It's adorable.
It is.
Yeah.
It's super adorable.
In that stupid little deck saver.
Does it come with that?
Did you have to get that after more?
I got it off Juneau.
Juneau is the place to get deck savers.
I didn't realize they're always like 10 bucks cheaper than anywhere else.
Okay.
Yeah, because some of those are kind of pricey.
Like my delusion was like 60 bucks.
Which was like.
Yeah, I think my Taroza one was around 60 bucks.
Yeah, the half-ax was 40 or something.
Yeah, they are discounted ones.
It seems.
And you got to get it from the UK.
And it takes a little longer and they don't like track things.
But like, but yeah, when you realize like you're going to get
some kind of case to play it live or take it somewhere.
And this is the smallest one.
I can just it's like in my bag a lot of the time now.
So fun to just bring it around and use it.
Hell yeah.
Well, I'm super jealous.
Yeah, I know it's I highly highly recommend this.
I think it's even at the regular price.
I think it's fucking super tight.
Especially if you want like it's a lot more fun than using 808 909 samples.
Right.
And it sounds amazing.
Yeah, the virtual analog emulation stuff always sounded better to me than sample.
Yeah, definitely.
Like I didn't like that.
I don't like the Zen core synth engine.
That's the main reason I sold the MC 707.
It's I just really didn't like that synthesizer.
I just didn't think it sounded great.
I don't like the classic JD or JV kind of rolling preset ronblar sounds.
Right.
I get that they're classics, but I just I don't like working with them.
Not fun.
You have the real deal still.
Right.
Which one?
Don't you have a june or you have a Jupiter, huh?
I have a Jupiter six.
Yeah.
Which I'm probably actually going to sell again.
You've been on the cusp of selling that for a while now.
Once it was fixed.
Chase fixed it.
Working great for a while.
Started to have problems again.
I kind of know what to do, but I'm just like honestly what I want to do.
I want to sell it and get in Udo super six.
That'd be awesome.
Yeah.
Because I could probably sell it for more than that.
And make some money.
And those are like 2500 for the desktop.
Yeah.
It just it's like seems to cover similar territory.
And I'd have something that's not 40 years old.
Right.
Because ultimately you still like the sound of that Jupiter.
Yeah, it's okay.
No.
Like I don't like the envelopes, which I've said before.
The filters are amazing.
The oscillators are amazing.
I think the envelopes are shit though.
Right.
Kind of ruined this point.
I would just keep it as like a display piece of nothing else.
Oh yeah.
It's chilling next to your 808 or something.
So you're keeping it for the flex.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah.
I thought it was one years at the speed too.
So now you kind of resent it.
Like there's like.
Oh I do.
It's a bad animation.
Yeah.
Not a good one.
TR success.
Go out and get one.
If you can.
I'm glad you brought it actually.
Because I feel like seeing it up close and running through it real quick
really sells.
I think really sells it in a way that verbal description may not have done otherwise.
Because especially having to use some of those other TR or the new TR stuff from Roland
which were fine but they were monstrous.
Yeah.
TR-8S is pretty big.
And with that editing style you would think like more knobs is better on the TR-8S.
Like I'm not editing multiple drums at the same time very often.
I'm going from one drum to the next.
We can get it where I want.
Making the sequence.
Calling it a fucking day.
So it's really not even it doesn't feel awkward to me to edit it in any way.
And the MC-707 that felt like horror show compared to that.
It was just.
Yeah.
That was not a good time for me.
Right.
Have you had a chance to dive into the new FM firmware stuff at all?
Yeah.
It's cool.
It's a lot of fun.
Weird shit.
Really appealing to me.
Yeah.
It's stuff you wouldn't get very different than the LXR.
Obviously it's way more like clean kind of FM stuff but you can get some nice like
donks you know kick your hums like.
Yeah.
It's they did a good job.
And also the web editor.
I haven't used that much yet but I just saw John Ruderman just did like promo promo for them.
Like with the new stuff and the new web editor.
So I'm actually going to try that out just to like make some kits and see.
Yep.
The FM stuff is definitely appealing to me.
Lately that's kind of been like the root of my drums lately is FM based plugins and VCV and also
in my rack.
Like I've had both of my plates in FM mode.
Had my rings in FM mode.
I recently got a.
What is it?
ALM.
One of the dink chemis.
Would you get a case?
A chemis.
Alchemis.
Take a.
Oh that thing's awesome.
I want that.
I finally got one like I remember.
Sean.
I should I remember what name he uses now but I guess Sean dementia is fine.
I think that's yeah.
I think that's.
But yeah that was one of the first models he got and he spoke highly of it.
And I was like yeah it's always kind of caught my eye like so did the castle you know.
And I always thought like maybe I should just get the alchemis castle but no I got the little
taco joint that was a.
Out of mind sick purchase.
Right right.
Grab one.
It's a good old river.
Yeah.
It appeared and I forgot I even ordered this and I was like oh yeah.
But cool.
I fucking love it.
Like it's awesome.
I know it's an old module at this point but like yeah I feel like I've really
been missing the boat on that one.
I went over to Luke's and he had Tysodico and that one and I fell in love with both of them.
Pretty much immediately and got the Tysodico and it's still like great.
I really like it.
It's super cool.
I can tap into what I used to try to do with the BIA a lot and it seems like it's more versatile.
That's what I think about the Tysodico.
I'm like oh this like I felt bad about the BIA and then I got that.
I'm like no this is like super flexible.
It's cool.
It's neat and you can even get like weird kind of like arpeggiations out of it.
Super weird.
Things that I didn't expect to do melodic stuff with it but you definitely can.
Yeah I mean like I just wanted to do like weird wonky FM percussion with it.
Right.
But yeah you can actually use it as like synth voice.
It's neat.
I don't know how to describe it.
It's awesome.
I still need to spend more quality time with it but so far yeah I'm like not
regretting my purchase at all.
Have you checked the castle?
I mean I've looked at the videos for it and I'm like yeah this is awesome and huge but like
I'm not an FM wizard like you and like it kind of intimidated the shit out of me at the same time.
I was like David Prey like this you know I mean.
That was one of the ones I was between that and the humble quad.
Yeah.
Those were the two that I like that was the tough decision.
Right.
Which one to get and I ended up going with the humble quad but every once in a while I'll
see like somebody post a video of like them doing something on the castle and I'm like yeah.
Vahk do I need to get do I need to get that too?
Yeah.
You might.
Because I mean the taco was like one voice of that.
Yeah and I can't even imagine having four with more options too like it's probably incredible.
Yeah.
You know but I love their stuff too they're just good at making the more I use
all my stuff the more I realize they're really good designers.
Same here.
I don't have much of it like I have PAMs workout with the expander which I love like it's
so fucking versatile and I have a Tango Quartet.
I haven't and I used to have the the Sid guts the Lux forgot about that.
That was them right?
Yeah that was yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah I like that but it was kind of you know one tricky then yeah yeah at the time I was
trying to like downsize my my oscillators and having the sandwich said I'm not getting
a sandwich said or a MIDI Bach and a module in it.
I was a little disappointed with it that said it still sounds fucking incredible.
It's a really interesting module.
It's just it's pricey you can still get it at analog haven and it's like 360 bucks without
the Sid chip.
Yeah.
You got to bring your own.
And similarly I don't have that many I have an I also have a Tango Quartet and I have their
little envelope the pip.
Oh you got the pip slope.
Yeah I mean like a 4a tiny little 4hp envelope again I think they just they've got a good
sense of what makes a good module.
Yeah I'm really curious about their newer newer ish multi-effects.
MFX yeah yeah they just updated it to with the new the company I work for their parent company
put out new ADAC or ADDA chips and they put them in that and that was the way they were
able to make they couldn't get those they revved it and did new ones so now they can
make MFXs again.
Cool.
Like better headroom now the new ones too.
I'm real curious about it I just haven't had a chance to like pull the trigger on it.
Right.
And you have a you finally joined the FX aid brigade hasn't arrived yet but yeah I have
one coming from signal sounds finally and you got the pro I got the pro.
That's the one.
Yeah I was real close to rebying a ZDSP because I've been missing my halls of a holla.
But I was like no I've used that to death I should try something different.
You'll like this I think.
I hope so.
Yeah.
Um will it replace halls for me I don't know like I've been back to using the VSTs.
Yeah you know the the I can't remember because there's so many of them but like the havahala
shimmer yeah delay plate yeah the need rule one the hauler room that's yeah that's what I've
been using the most yes well the weird names those aren't in the plugin though those are those
were just the DSP the ZDSP cart like the Nifalom are yeah yeah but I'm pretty sure the algorithms
on the ZDSP cart were from the hala room I love those algorithms on that cart like I but
I've used them to death like over the last few years and it's like okay time to switch it up a
little bit I really wanted just a reverb that had more to offer like as far as control goes like
you only get three parameters on pretty much any of these effects modules the ZDSP you have like
three the effects aid you have three I think this new ALM one I think you have three I mean unless
you're going into like the strum and territory you're talking about devices I think you have
three of three so like I was kind of annoyed by that and like I spent a lot of time the other
night just like researching effects pedals and I was real close to pulling the trigger on an
Empress reverb yeah and just being like fuck modules all together none of these offer the
amount of features that I want but the the Empress you get a lot of options but like you can't
CV them you know I mean so I was like do I really want to know there are CV what's there's the weird
Empress that is the euroboro or whatever yeah the one is like euro friendly or the Zoya or
something like something like that but it has CV and I think you can even rack it I think you
can take it out it's a collision and rack it that those just look like a fucking mess to me
oh yeah I was not yeah the interface is like no no that's they set like the ben jordan did that
one video and I've looked at a couple other videos and I'm like sonically this isn't bad
usability though I don't talk about it if I could just get a Empress reverb as a module I would buy
it immediately yeah like without hesitation I would get the delay to immediately and yeah and the
delay absolutely I want the delay kind of right now but I'm gonna do it I just want it for the
show and it's just like it's stupid it's not that expensive you know like I was looking at the delays
too when I was looking at the river for some reason on reverb when I was searching Empress reverb the
delays were in the search results too so I was like just eyeball knows and comparing prices but
it gets to like 499 list but you can get it for like closer to four
but yeah overall I was just kind of frustrated at the lack of good reverb options yes you know I
had the star lab for a minute and that did have some good CV control but like at the same time
you only have three different algorithms on that which aren't even like algorithms it's like
three different spaces it's like kind of super limited and everything that comes out of star
lab kind of sounds the same it's like you're just doing slightly different takes of the same
sound you know that is nice thing about the FX8 though is because there's so many different
algorithms and they're basically these different models and especially we do getting the pro and
having just go get me all of them again you're right it's only three CV inputs but three's been
fine yeah I'm not really that's not really been a huge limitation to me I'm also used to the ZDSP
having a similar sort of like here the three they gave you now do your work the other thing about
FX8 this is a segue Greg I'm lobbing this up for you yeah is they've got a model the generation
lost like is this right yeah generation lost petals generation loss petal yeah that as I do not
have one of those I've been super fucking stoked on it just being able to have that I think it sounds
amazing it's not exactly like a petal I don't know anyone who has that petal yeah so I know you
know like I'm not doing great great oh wait what's that oh shit do you know someone who has that
petal Greg what's this sitting here on the table look at that spot list a generation loss the most
dip switches I've ever seen on that petal yeah I mean that's kind of what chase bliss is known for
like they're weird dip switch system you know yeah um so Greg tell the listeners what it is that I
expertly set up for you to talk about well first let's take a step back there let's go into the
history a little bit let's go for a bot generation loss let me pull up my notes for this one is this
going to be just from their Wikipedia page but is this also going to be a personal no it's not a
personal journey okay uh excited this I decided to try to explain this a bit because I was trying
to explain it to my cousin because I told him like the new generation loss mark two is up I told
him I got one I was like you'd probably be interested in this because he likes to lo-fi stuff right this
is the aforementioned Cyrus or side that we were talking about in the previous episode he's gonna
be a recurring character and he hopped on reverb and he started sending me links to older versions
and he was like this is it and it's not that expensive I was like no that's the wrong version
and he was like it says version two I said correct that's the wrong version two yeah and he's like
what the fuck are you talking about so I had explained to him because it can be confusing yeah it is
overall there are four different iterations of the generation loss petal it started out as
a Cooper effects petal it was just Cooper effects generation loss that was version one
then they paired up wait real quick what year was that like how far back are we going I didn't do
time frames is it roughly the 80s all no no no yeah this was all roughly over like the last decade
yeah like probably 10 years ago got you know so yeah Cooper effects made generation loss
it was more or less what you see here you know minus dips to witches and all that jazz so
generation loss was successful so chase bliss hit them up and they're like let's do a collaboration
we'll do a version of this petal we'll add some dip switches we'll add some other options
that was just called the chase bliss slash Cooper effects generation loss
but you can think of that as like mark two right that makes that a version two right right right
so that was the big one for a while like that was the one that I had um it was super rare
hard to get price was like insane on reverb like some of them were selling for two grand yeah
holy shit yeah i'll get to that later but yeah it was like unobtainium for a while
so then Cooper effects side he was going to do a follow up to the original
and this was the Cooper effects generation loss version two but in actuality you can consider
this version three so there's kind of like a uh fast and furious right thing going on here
they're not actually in order right so you have to be a fan you know to understand the actual
order oh wait do we want to segue into me talking about fast and furious for half hour
i can do that all right we'll we'll table that for now it's like family dave
um so yeah he created a sequel to the solo version and then Cooper effects cease to exist
he put that out that was like the last puddle Cooper effects released there wasn't too many of them
um and he just said i'm no longer releasing stuff i'm done and he instead got hired by chase bliss
so he now is an engineer for chase bliss to the best of my knowledge yeah and understanding
lo and behold this is now the sequel to the collab which can't really consider it a collaboration
this is four because he's been assimilated into chase right so yes this is version four that is
sitting in front of me just came out uh last week started shipping this is from the first badge
uh super excited to have real quick it's just chase bliss at this point there's just
chase bliss not right okay no cooper on this name because he is in the fold of chase bliss
parts of yeah gotcha that is very confusing and they finally made a fucking stereo pedal they
made it fucking stereo yes um oddly enough when i was talking about like looking at reverbs and
shit the chase bliss dark world mhm super fucking appealing to me i was like this is like the perfect
reverb pedal that i've been looking for it's you can run two different reverbs in parallel
and they're meant to be like on the darker side oh yeah and you can adjust like the serial
parallel processing of it and all that shit fucking amazing looking little pedal only in mono right
and i was like fuck you like so i'm hoping because they did this new generation loss in stereo that
means we'll have more stereo pedals in the future that would be great because i don't buy any of
theirs because they're mono right yeah i would love a stereo dark world so if anyone out there
is listening that is affiliated with chase bliss at all make that your next thing please i think
it would also rings fucking hotcakes yeah or even yet make them make a module of it but that might
be asking too much if you're gonna stick to the pedal format please do more stereo shoot for the
sky Greg you're asking for things like start high bit high so real quick before we get too much
further than this yes yes um this is a unique effect can you explain to our listeners who may
not be familiar with it what does it do because it's probably doesn't fall into a lot like aegorys
that are easily described yeah chase bliss describes it as a study of tape in all its forms
that checks out yeah i describe it as boards of canada in a box both of those check out yeah
yeah it's meant to emulate that lo-fi vibe of tape degradation not necessarily just saturation
although that's a part of it but the sounds you get like when you record upon a recording upon a
recording you know i mean the that and you know also the the flutter and the hiss and the noise and
all that jazz um but there's but to be clear unlike something like a space echo there's no tape in
this there's no physical tape there's no tape in this there's no delay in this it's not a tape
delay which is usually what you go to commonly if you're trying to achieve that or a tape deck
you know or something but yeah but this is all emulation of tape without tape yes and primarily
it was meant to emulate vhs okay like all four versions were kind of aimed at that like
the previous versions there was only one tape model that it worked with you know i mean it was just
you just had one vibe and you could adjust the filtering you could adjust the hiss things like
that the the warble but it was all like one model that it was emulating this is the first one that
adds a model knob that you can scroll through tons of different emulations that's cool that is cool
and i can read them off to you because i have the nice little manual here that is of the beautiful
box like the design of this whole thing is fucking amazing manual oh it's nice dude it's got all these
old that is you gotta pin too didn't you want to now a sweet little pin so they do a condensed
version of the models i'll run through that first so there's 12 in total well actually 13 because
there's an off mode which just puts you in what's called classic mode which is the same as the previous
versions oh okay so you can dip into classic mode and when you're in classic mode the failure
knob becomes the high pass the model knob becomes the low pass right on the this is like a parasite
you got that clouds mode yeah yeah there there is some hidden shit in here too depending on like
if you hold down both not yeah i won't dip in all that shit oh wow but it can get deep and then on
top of that you have all the dip switches right right but holy oh so you're talking about hidden
modes outside of just the dips which dominates yes yes modes are pretty big for a puddle yeah this
is it's also really enticing like just as its own little mystery yeah yeah i i mean i loved the
previous one but i had like extreme i don't want to say buyers remorse because i didn't regret buying
it i loved it it's probably was my favorite petal ever but like i paid a premium to get it right when
i did purchase it because like i said it was like impossible to get right and like knowing that i
paid that much for a petal just always kind of wait on me it puts a different pressure on you yeah
for just a one trick type of effect that i wasn't using in my recording all that much i just love
to play with it right right you know i i think i spent like a grand on that petal which was like
nearly three times the retail and i was like yeesh and that was the cheapest one on reverb for weeks
like all the other ones were around 13 15 1800 and shit so there's almost like a like a cult
following around this petal absolutely okay yeah um in fact like ever since the chase was version
they just sell out before they're even like you know available like we'll find them at retailers
because they're just gone immediately directly so real quick i mean we talked before the recording
about how as a synthesizer tool this is ideal do people use this with guitars is this big with
like indie rockers and i don't know i don't pay attention to the guitar okay i don't know if the
edit enough that was like who was driving up the price of this well yeah i mean it was
i think they finally understand their market with this petal you know like yeah it was for
guitarists and guitarists definitely used it most of the demos you have find on youtube are
guitarist but with the chase bliss collaboration version mark two i'll say or version two like it
started to get scooped up by synth people gotcha gotcha you know who were trying to do that low
five vibe in fact they even collaborated with i think like um his name Andrew Huang blank MS
i think his name wait blank mass from like sacred bones blank four dot ms
he's the dude that does like all the low five vibe stuff on there also amulets there was a
model designed by amulets there was a model designed by marcus fissure so it would be keep
yeah it would be easy model um yeezy model oh no so yeah like i i loved the petal but like the
price weighed on me too much eventually i sold it for what i paid for it made my money back and i
always in the back of my mind i was like if i could ever get one again for a reasonable price i would
jump on it and i was able to do it with this so like super excited um so wait i distracted you
yeah tremendously um you were about to read off the different models the different the the
short version of it is models one through three are vhs emulations models four through five porta
studio uh model six camcorder model seven through eight diktaphone model nine toy
model nine or model ten wachman model 11 is just called broken and then model 12 real to real
and they give more in-depth explanations as to the these like model one for example is a cpr
dash 3300 gen one type vhs tape wow that's very specific yeah um model four for example is a porta
max rt cassette tape uh model nine fishy dash 60 cassette you know like just all this weird shit
man so even before we've heard any of this that level of detail and that level of sort of just
nerd deep dive yes is incredibly awesome i agree yeah yeah because like i i just love
lo-fi saturated you know textures yeah you know and i you said for some of the primaetia
shit i used to try to do the like record the vhs thing i never was able to create really great
results with it probably because i was using uh like a clean tape right i learned over time that
like you kind of need a fucked up tape you need to go like full william bizinski like disintegration
tapes the ones i've had in my attic for 11 years now that have gone through drastic temperature
changes that is what yeah so like back when i was doing like the prima this up there wasn't
that much information out there about it it's just like a vague post here and there like some
people saying oh yeah i record shit the vhs over and over and that makes a neat saturation you know
and i have you know fuck around with that there's a lot more information out there now about like
lo-fi recording and saturation and how to do degraded sounds um and yeah one of the things is
like leave your tape and the sun or go through some temperature championship like that that i
didn't know so like my results always varied it was kind of shitty um i would even record shit to my
how about it's not a walkman but i guess it could be but there is a difference between cassette
tapes and vhs tapes as far as even just the mechanism for extracting data from them right i like all
of it right yeah that's what i'm saying and that's why this pedal so appealing me now is like it's
trying to encompass all of it which is amazing yeah yeah oh yeah yeah i mean aside from the
the new model select um it also has a dedicated saturate knob which works differently poor
per model yeah like on the classic mode that was more of like a sample reduction
which was kind of cool i always kept it around like 12 percent you know i mean but now like it's a
bonafide like saturation depending on the model and i fucking love it already so something's already
blowing my mind the model is a knob that you can just sort of like sweep through all those different
models that's not what i was expecting honestly i thought the model was going to be driven by the
dip switches in the back it can be fucking with the switches you can adjust what's called the ramp
which is an on board lfo that you can assign to that knob and have it shift through models
it's one of those ones on the box because it's like kind of a waveform yeah and i'm guessing
that's how you assign the cv input i haven't even looked into the cv capabilities of it or like the
the fucking the yeah the like the pedal i don't know what that can do yet um i had sort of coming
into this recording like a little bit of a preconception of like what generation loss was and this
is like 10 times more than that um and you haven't even gone through all the six knobs yet or the
switches so what's everything do here yeah so like most of it is the same that you'll find on the
previous models like you have your auxiliary mode which just assigns what happens when you push
to soxillary switch you can have it do like tape stops you can have it oh that's cool yeah
you can have it max out the failure knob up here like so you can have that low on the head and
it'll just like blast it to max you know i mean so it'll just be full on failure mode um and you can
have it just kind of bypass all the facts it's just called filter mode where it'll just be like clean
it'll still be going through the processor but like you're not getting the tape effect yeah
yeah you're just getting the filter effect yeah the second knob it's just called the dry knob you
adjust how much of dry signal you want to come through so you can have it none or because there's
no wet dry knob right so this is so if you turn dry all the way off you're just getting like weird
tape noise yeah kind of like looping delay or you can like feed the delay yeah yeah or you can have
it at like unity gain so at that point all the tape stuff is kind of like functioning as like a
chorus you know yeah it's neat and that's especially neat because this one has the stereo and one of
the dip switches in the back can make it do different things in stereo basically you can have left
right channels being processed by the tape shit differently so you go like the left is kind of
warbling different than the right you got different amounts of like hiss between your left and your
right so real quick how do you set that up like what you described sounds amazingly powerful yeah
i'm a little confused how you do that with this uh these dip switches back here okay ones that are
in dark blue they're if you flip it upside down says customized yeah yeah so that adjusts different
characteristics of this stuff so to the viewers i'm looking at like probably 15 dips 15 16 dip switches
on the back here what's c usb 4 i have no idea what the usb is for maybe they're gonna offer like
firmware updates in the future or something like none of the previous versions had a usb port that
i'm that i can recall so i have no idea it is one of the sexiest pieces of gear i've ever seen
yeah this is wild dude like when i had the previous one like even if i didn't know how much i had paid
for it like holding it in my hand i was just like this is an awesome piece of gear you know i mean
this one even more so and oh but you're saying the dip switches like that's how you can figure
the other thing you can figure out this which is like for example this one hum bypass there's like
a hum that is built into the failure oh wow you can you can bypass it you know i mean like the more
you turn it up the more like you get with that um there's also drop bypass like it can do things
where the audio just kind of drops out for like you know at random you can bypass that i usually
bypass that i feel like that's too much having it just cut out right randomly personally um
but yeah so you got your flutter your wow which is a staple on oh i'm sorry there was one more knob
or switch rather and that's the noise switch you have none mild and heavy and that just brings in
the tape hiss noise like that um it's a lot of variation you can yeah there's all those models
which is like that's a lot and like i was saying some of the parameters defer per model to like the
the saturation for example will be different styles of tape saturation or degradation depending on
the model you said and i know you've only had this for 48 hours you said but it's responsive to you
jamming on these knobs like going to town on these knobs like it's it's up to everything's real time came
up last night kind of playing around with it like my personal favorite thing to do with it was just
to always run not not necessarily pads but atmospheric texture you know and in the fact that you can
do that in stereo now i think is yeah phenomenal yeah clearly they're not just catering to guitar
players anymore like they know that people that have since want to play with this thing um
so how did you get that were you early on the pre-orders i was not i missed out on the pre-order
as did a lot of people most people that tried to do the pre-order um it sold out within 10 minutes
and like a lot of people were in the paypal check out and then all of a sudden bloop none
available oh shit yeah i got very fortunate i saw a gentleman on mod wiggler post up that he
was backing out of his pre-order i caught him within like a few minutes of posting it and i was
like hey i will gladly take that off your hands um i would have even paid slightly more than retail
but he was literally just asking retail like four hundred bucks what he paid for it and i was like
i was like you're a fucking dude man yeah there's like awesome she's sending up some stickers i'm
cozy i've been so bad at that too i haven't seen that i should send a sticker so i've
so much shit over the last two three months because i was just kind of like cycling what i
wanted in my rig and i forgot to include anything extra and i feel like an asshole same here i had
a 50 success rate of remembering to do that it's better than us yeah so i got rid of like 10 stickers
that way so anyone had purchased something off me recently i apologize i will mail you stickers
if you want stickers yeah remember i can cram into an envelope tasteful nudes
yes tasteful news um no panties but yeah and i was nervous about doing that i've never purchased
a pre-order from someone before yeah and i'm like so how does this work can you use any said like
chase bliss is really good at like changing the information on the order right right and he sent
me screenshots he was like here's me requesting them to change the pre-order to your address he's
like any email notifications will still come to me but i'll relay them to you so this is like the
first time you bought a video game entirely digital you're like i don't have a CD i don't have a booklet
like what's this scene exactly like that you're just like your mind is blown at technologies
advancement into the digital realm yeah it was it's kind of nebulous you know i mean yeah i
purchased nothing but other than someone's word that they will write have this go to you give you
their place in a virtual line yeah it's a really weird thing to sell but yeah um but yeah i went
for it yeah paid off took the leap yeah and it was within the first batch so these are
onobtanium right now there's a few that are already up on reverb like most people received them
the same day as i did which was two days ago there's a few on reverb right now that are going for
around seven hundred dollars which is like flipper price yeah almost double than retail yeah absolutely
there's no one just selling it for retail right now right everyone's trying to flip right um which
is unfortunate because that just goes to show that there are a lot of people clogging up those
pre-orders whose sole intention is just a fucking flip so we were talking about last
i was gonna say we already reeled against them the same thing's happening with the score up
the hatbacks too everyone up there is like four to six hundred dollars over retail price and it's
like which is a bummer solid guys yeah this is a huge bummer because maybe not for like two to six
hundred there are definitely people out there that this is like a game changer for their setup
it's unique yeah yeah but it's okay i think at this point it like if you want one you can get one
at retail you're just gonna have to really pay attention to when the pre-orders open up again
you know i mean and get involved in those badges because it's not like a limited run
it's it's just that there's a lot of demand and you got a lot of these flippers that are scooping
them out so you got to kind of compete so to deviate once again i'm sorry i've been nothing but a
distraction this whole time but um more fired up about this than i thought it was going to be
you said you've been experimenting with it for the last couple of nights what have you been
doing with it only last night um i was just running basic shit through just trying to compare it to
the classic mode originally i was trying to dial in uh the classic mode they say it's the same as
classic mode but i think because it's in stereo it sounded a little different to my ears and so did the
the filter i i'm curious if i could get any specifics somewhere online i haven't found any but i
feel like the filter is different one of my favorite things about the previous chase bliss version
was the filter um it was just very uh i don't know i don't know it was just perfect to me like
for what it was meant to do it was a perfect filter yeah this one doesn't sound quite as resonant
i think i haven't dipped too much into it i think in the hidden modes i can adjust the filter maybe
you went over the six knobs and none of them were filter cut off or resonant that only value
yeah that only exists in classic mode gosh okay the failure knob becomes high pass again
and this model mode comes low pass again if you look underneath the text you'll see lphb oh yeah yeah
that signifies what is available in classic mode gosh when the model mode is off meaning all
the way counterclockwise so it's like a fixed resonance level yes and i always liked where it was like
it was pretty resonant definitely not transparent filter you know in the previous version it was
pretty upfront upfront yeah but i loved it yeah like there was sometimes where i'd run things through
it and just use it as a filter more or less and you know just to add a little bit of hiss and
filtering and real subtle and that was nice um filter does sound a little different to me so real
quick there's a switch that's between the two um stomp presets oh there's presets yeah do you set
them or do they come on board okay how do you set how do you make a preset i forget because i never
really did it but it's available it is you've had a concept of what the presets are yeah i mean the
the controls were so basic on the previous versions i never really felt the need to save anything i
would just feel it out dial it in you know but now because you have so many different options and
models i can definitely see utilizing the preset system more that usb is midi oh is it oh this is
midi capable on the side i was thinking i don't fuck with no midi yeah more interested in the tv
input that's weird though because this is also a midi input oh maybe that is the midi maybe the
u_s_ piece oh it's weird wait there's a separate quarter inch midi yeah midi and ox oh fucking hell
this is a this is a monster it's really blown away very impressive and you're um i mean they've
made a lot of them already they're eight yeah yeah no said i don't know the number here but you're
you're in the 800s here yeah that's the thing like i think they plan on making a lot of these so
the other ones were kind of limited because i guess they i don't think they ever expected them
to become as popular as they did you know and like there's a difference between like
manufactured scarcity and oh shit we made what we thought was gonna be enough and turned out to
not be enough that's a huge spectrum there yeah it seems like they're trying to keep up with orders
this time around which is like they realize they have a a hit right here and they're trying to
you know accommodate the demand i assume the uh lo-fi beats to study to youtube
uh scene is about to explode yes and giving them i don't necessarily expect you to do that
how do you typically use this oh yeah you did ask me that before sorry i got sidetracked i
probably by me because i've been asking a lot of questions mainly background textures okay you
know i mean like i and and just to process drums through like i love the sound when it gets a little
dirty and degraded you know beyond just distortion like it's so easy to turn drums into
gabber you know when you're applying distortions but you mean the perfect form right go on but like
you know that's not what i'm always looking for or even if i am looking for sometimes i want to add
extra characters right to the gabber kit you know i mean like i want to add
especially with digital sounds like fm drums they can be so in your fucking face you know but
once you start applying like tape saturation and degradation sounds and pitch warbles and
hisses and shit like that it starts to make things that you can gel with other sounds easier you know
right because a lot of that distortion for like a like a gabber like a classic gabber kick it's
full spectrum it's take it's it's upfront it's sort of man spreading across your frequency spectrum
like to have something that kind of goes like you still have that gabber kick but it's actually
kind of like playing nicely with others right i like to bury sounds in the mix you know i mean i
always have like i i'm not one to allow space often in my mixes you know which i'm sure it's been a
nightmare for all the people that have mastered your tracks over the years yeah like i like to have
things buried and like one of the most ear pleasing ways the bury sounds is tape
degradation style sound you know i mean either through real tape or emulation like this
hmm and also when it comes to atmospheric's same situation i like to be able to create texture
that's one of the kind of why i like granulizing things so much too because you can create like a
nice texture out of something that was a you know a stable sound now is like got more texture to it
for lack of a better term and that's why i like my shitty reverbs same situation it's all the same
situation i like to make shit dirty and kind of like able to fit in the background and fill the
spaces you know like nicely and this is just another method of achieving that in my opinion you know and
it's especially good when you combine it with like a shitty reverb right you know i mean things like
that um so wait as a uh self-proclaimed dirty boy mmm can you imagine getting more of these
i know i mean obviously this is probably something you're not going to get rid of anytime soon do you
see a use out of having multiples of them not necessarily okay like i kind of it's type of thing
where like you just you know one track it out fair enough just me yeah yeah yeah go through it and
then you're done um it's not the type of thing where i really need to have like multiples of to
have like you don't want more hands-on control or like i'm not going to be performing with like
running everything through it's not a thing that i would record something through similar to tape
you know i mean i use it just like a reel to reel except without all the hassles of
fucking around with a reel to reel just bounce out the the sub mix through it
add some texture dial it in the taste base and someone with a reel to reel that they rarely use
because of what a pan the acid is right it's cool like using it is amazing but
um it's definitely easier than a vhs to like yeah it's really both of those are really inconvenient
mediums there really are and this makes it way more convenient and there's a lot of shit out there
that i mean the concept isn't new right right i i think ever since like the first boards of
canada album there's been a cult following of people trying to emulate that type of sound
degradation through plugins petals other gear um most of it doesn't nail it though right you know
i mean i've always felt like this kind of does um i don't know how they did it well you have that
book to read it is a wonderful little manual i'm super happy it came with it it's also substantial
i mean there's a lot of data in there they're not fucking around no i mean it goes into like
you know like just discussing like models and all that shit like for someone who like might be
completely new right to like the concept so greg yeah so you're so ultimately you are a fan of this
battle i am this is i feel like it's the complete version of it i can't think of anything else that
they could do to add to it at this point might i mean from the start i was always wanting stereo
right and now it's there yeah um and i didn't ask for it but i'm glad it exists the saturate circuit
is fucking phenomenal oh nice i'm having a lot of fun messing with that yesterday in fact i can see
myself using this just as a saturation pedal from time to time though um there's a neat little tidbit
in the manual about the saturation it says the saturate and the model are interactive
the tape models come after saturation in the signal flow molding and filtering the distortion
so each model will exaggerate certain parts of the saturation while suppressing others
because that's kind of cool in the flow so it's kind of like you're over driving the inputs of a tape deck
which is pretty awesome yeah pretty cool and they use a term that i have i'm not familiar with
and i thought i knew a lot about distortion saturation but they say the type of saturation
that occurs on a you know tape recorder is called magnetic hysteresis loop
hmm it it's the magnetic structure of the tape and essentially shifts and alters any future sounds
that are recorded and you don't have to actually fuck with tape which is right as we established
a pain in the ass yeah yum is it a hundred percent accurate fuck no yeah but it comes pretty damn close
yeah it's pretty convenient seems like it has its own thing going on too that always goes a long
way too like being able to change those modes in real time and shit that's pretty cool yes the
type of fact that goes beyond just being in effect it's it becomes an instrument you know and that's
how i thought about the previous one and this one even way more so right with all the different
models and such but i mean i think making a good point though it's now more than the sum
of its constituent modes being able to sweep between them and integrate those and have them
mixed between them um like you know trying to set up 12 DCRs and real to real and tape right and
trying to do what this is doing in that battle talking a tape and a toilet yes i mean not say
couldn't be done right it's just impractical yeah this is a better solution for that big fan of it
super happy to have them looking forward to spending more quality time with it yeah
yeah very nice what about you what's next on your uh so my my big thing it's not even that big
because it's a quality of life improvement trade or where i'm going with this um i pre-ordered the
deluge ole update yep you upgrade um i've talked about this forever i clearly stand for uh deluge
all the time um but the display is garbage like it's commonly bad it's for four characters yeah
like eight segment four characters right yeah it's um and you know it's scrolls if it's more than
that but like i've like i now accommodate the four characters by like all of my everything i save
is four characters um it always worked um especially when i was like okay cool i'll just make everything
four characters long it's a pretty huge limitation like going to a parameter and just getting like
here's the parameter and it spits out a four character representation of it and then the value
was never ideal um it's it's a very hard way to work and i think they even originally said at the
outset like they wanted you to not look at screens when they made it which is why they even did the
clever stuff like waveform display on the pads and like all those brilliant workarounds but even
in this new update yeah the sort of um dovetail off of that they said that the deluge has gone way
beyond what they intended it for but you know like that first version like what they've first
envisioned for it is not what they have now it's evolved in this way that is just um totally different
and they still have fundamental principles this is like how they want it to be used and you know
those haven't changed but you know basically it the four character display started to become a
limitation and you certainly don't have to do it um but they have to do this upgrade because
apparently it's more complicated and it makes it like send it in i have to send it in yeah
just wondering how that would work i was like wow you just swap it out or what but i wish i could
just do it myself um sure but they're not offering that as a thing and it makes sense because it's
gonna be a lot of people that fuck it up you know break their deluge and then they've got another
nightmare right trying to fix it so like electron every did the plus drive when you could like
upgrade those things right like they'd ship it back and yeah and i honestly i think this is a good
time to do it not like i'm getting a lot of shows but like summers over realistically shows are
just going to start dwindling fucking spend your winter maybe a week or two without it um and
they even said they're going to try to um minimize just how long it's away like you know like they're
gonna let you know pack it up get ready you send that off and they send it back as fast as possible
and you don't have to do it there's basically like like forked firmware with ole ole d and without
functionality is basically unchanged but now whenever you get to go to a parameter
um it's sort of in bold at the top of this ole d values either scroll um kind of like what you had
already but you can actually fucking read the entire thing um or if it's something with a numeric
parameter you get a little bar that shows you the value yeah if you can afford it and you can afford
to have it away for a you know a week or two um it makes total sense um also everything they're
making from here on out will just include it already like it's part of the the base model now
which is every couple of months just raises more in price yeah which is cool that they were super
transparent about that absolutely here's our plan for price raises over time and they explained
they've been very forthcoming about why they had to do it um and also i'm glad i got mine when i
did but you know um it would be very hard to justify getting one now just because we're not
justified they're a lot pricier they're really they're pretty expensive now um are they yeah
yeah like just from them i think it's like twelve or thirteen hundred bucks whoa yeah okay yeah and
i got mine for like seven hundred and say one day between six to eight yeah they were really cheap
if you were like eight new and now they're going to be like fifteen hundred new
or something like that really should it's all but it does a lot more now to like kind to get it
yeah the cost of everything so much respect for them even doing a retrofit not just being like
here's a mark two like buy the new one if you want it absolutely uh a hundred percent of grade like
it because that's not easy to figure out itself no and they even had when they when they tried to
do the first sort of offering of it the website crashed like basically there was a lot they didn't
expect yeah they didn't just did not expect that like there was a flood of people trying to get
this this work done they and they went back and said yeah we fucked up i'm sorry came up with a
new approach for it that worked you know if you if you um pre-order by the state you're in line
you got to guarantee we'll figure it out from there so you know the fact that they did this
fucked it up immediately corrected it i mean that's yeah i i've nothing but love for us and
synth strum and uh what they do yeah cool so that's that's my big thing and i will be more excited to
show everyone when uh when i get this done jerryty send it in no no i just did the pre-order the um
okay it's starting in november um and i think it's probably first come first serve but basically
they'll email you hey you're up you're up the bat get your shit ready send it on the state
um and hopefully in by then too i i don't i don't think i was one of the early ones so
um by the time they come to me i assume they will even refine the process even more yeah
that's awesome yeah i'm very stuck again this is like the um the centerpiece of everything i do
every every time every time because starts begins and at like even in the studio not just live stuff
yeah absolutely i mean because it's got midi and cv and samples its own synths engine like i
now think in those terms when i start right it's cool because i remember when you were going to buy
one that was kind of your goal if you wanted something to kind of be the heart of your setup
i didn't realize you achieved it with i thought it was more like something you used for live stuff
than realize like in the studio i do that as well yeah i mean there's a separate set of lives
setups um live presets set up in just a different workflow yeah that works for live but also at home
completely different and can switch his context to track making and composition
seamlessly all in the same box yeah yeah with the exception of the sound generation reminds me a
lot of the square pat backs um which i just finally got to after waiting for half of a year yeah um
so we the the delay was supply chain or was there something else it caused supply chain okay yeah
because i ordered it in like april and even at that time they were like this is the june batch
and then june rolled around and they were like end of july and then something actually with the
panels like they had an issue they came back with defects and they were like no we're gonna like
redo these panels and it's going to be september and i got mine like right at the top of september
and it is a god tier greatest sequencer i've ever used um yeah i couldn't it's the same way you're
talking about the deluge like it's the center of sequencing for me now and like i can't imagine
that ever changing um you've been a fan of some of the other squirps open the past i had three pyramids
at one point i had two just to have a backup for a live show i was playing and um even the last
time i sold it i was using the west like performer a lot more and that's kind of why i sold it but
always missed some of the immediacy of the pyramid and some of the effects and things it can do and
it's like having the half-axis like them fixing every problem i could have ever had with the pyramid
adding a ton more stuff adding beautiful like isomorphic keyboard grids um it's made me realize like i
love isomorphic keyboards so this is a fundamentally different product this isn't just like a mark two
of the pyramid this is a fundamentally different product it's fundamentally different the pyramid
just had like kind of two um sets of eight steps you could use as a keyboard it was really elegant
it was nice again has no velocity on any of the pads which is actually just fine um this has like
i forget how many but eight by sixteen or twelve by sixteen button grid very similar in size to the
deluge actually um so it's that nice full thing you can see by color like every midi note like it's
yeah it's the nicest thing i've ever had for sequencing by a long shot and it's midi and cv like what
are all the ins and outs um it's got one it's two midi ins one of them small eight-inch format and
you can toggle air b type by software which is awesome and more people should do it's got like
three midi outs or four and then another eight-inch midi out um damn it's got six cv gate outs i think
a couple pairs of those um you know my friend luke has tested it a lot more than i have but the
timing on it is like ridiculous it's like microseconds delay like if you use the usb one of the
cool things is it has usb device and usb host support so the really cool thing that i've done
and a lot of people have done um is hooking it up to the expert sleepers fh2 midi to cv interface
because it's like microseconds latency from the device to the thing the timing is the best midi
timing um never really ever seen on the device that wasn't just generating midi from audio pulses
so it's like incredibly tight um there's actually a bug with it right now that we're kind of working
with squar upon because the connection to the midi interface will drop notes sometimes even though
like you can do it over ableton and it's actually because of how high speed it is it causes problems
like there's even a setting this also has a web interface like you were mentioning before to like
set up this fh2 i know it's shifted to the fh2 a little bit here but it's like tangential to the
subject um and you can turn off something that it will auto interrupt gates because it will send a
gate through this thing so quickly that it won't turn it off in time and you'll get like hung and
stuck notes because it's like um even if you run it through a midi interface which is my work around
now is running it through the din midi expansion that i built it adds one millisecond of latency
which is enough time for it to catch up and not have that thing hung up um so they've got to maybe
make an osu software update to the haphax to account for this uh but it's awesome because you
can hook up with one usb cable to this mod interface in my modular fh2 and have like you know 16 like
cv gate outs that are fucking incredibly tight latency but the killer feature the thing i like
about it maybe the most is that it has two cv inputs and what the fh2 will do when working with this
is it will auto calibrate any of your oscillators so you can take like even the shittiest oscillator
and get like seven or eight octaves of perfect tuning just hit that button calibrate it yeah
not have to think about tuning again which like even using the built-in cv gate outs on the haphax
like and they have a cool setup where you can actually calibrate it like you measure it and you
can calibrate the haphax first and do it like tuning on cv stuff is a nightmare it changes with heat
and this you've still got all that stuff warm up but once you hit that calibrate button and like
it just plays in perfect pitch it's like magical this discovery was after the what was like a weekend
of you calibrating oscillators calibrating oscillators and everything and i knew that this
was there and i was trying to make it work because i came across that fh2 bug i was like oh i gotta
figure out this another way and i was like nope i'm going to make this work report the bug to
squarp and so did luke also reported the bug to them and they're like they bought an fh2s
another gonna fix it and work on it like huge props to squarp for that nice um but it's like
it's so nice when it works and just the oscillator tuning like i you can buy a little breakout from
thong in a few other places it's like the easiest module build ever it's just putting some eighth
inch jacks on there and it connects via pins to the back of the fh2 to send midi in and out
oh nice um so i actually take the eighth inch midi out of the habaxx directly into the eighth
inch midi of the fh2 interface and that's like how i'm running my live set for the module or stuff
and it like it works so well it's it's really nice but back to the habaxx itself it's like
two squarp pyramids but with that huge button grid so it has the nice feature with the
pyramid when i built my live set you got 64 tracks and it's actually hierarchies a little
different on the um habaxx but on the pyramid you got 64 tracks you could assign them to any
midi channel they could be any length basically but that was like what you had to work with and
that was fine for me because i like needed four channels um for a song basically and i could divide
up and get like roughly 16 songs out of the thing with the habaxx it's a little different because
you get 16 rows of eight patterns and that's your project but the cool thing is there's a project
day and a project B button um so you can have two active projects at the same time and if you
unmute the one project it will mute the other one so you just like toggle them that way so you
can do it in real time as you're playing yes you can just go forever like just in the middle of a
sequence with no you it's also has the weirdest thing like it's the fastest turning on device i've
ever seen in my life it's like you hit the button and it's like there's no loading screen it's just
like boop it's ready to go so it's the opposite of the uh therogynous tone structure yes which has a
blank screen for 10 seconds as you sit there go please just fucking start did i bry it or is it
going to turn on i knew that feeling the fucking poly and play also a very long boot process oh
yeah it takes forever to load a project right i was actually like really disappointed with my
head the the tracker seemed like much faster in that regard i don't know why the play is so dog
shit slow yeah yeah loading a project or adding like a sample pack like i guess it's the sample
loading process that is so slow but the HAPACS does not have this problem no it's lightning quick in all
regards um they've been very good about updates it's just a fucking powerhouse of sequencing like
i've never and this is standalone right this is not okay yep it's um it's got its own power supply
it's not usb powered standalone um it's pretty like it's not that bag i would have brought it but
it's like it's probably like you know big as the t-r-a-s pretty much i mean you already did way more
show and tell than any of us did for this actually no no correct it i dropped the ball and show
you brought beer just brought some beers just showing off your pumpkin ale tell us about that
sounds a shadow that i just told you oh it sounds shadows yes it's uh it's brand new it's the
three point average this is the three point oh one yeah it's the newest it's a little more slim
that it doesn't have the vca which is like well you don't need it i didn't need that anyway yeah
but yeah HAPACS like super excited like it's already like i'm working on this live set and like
having it back and it's like a beast with the virus too like letting myself use a little presets
again my last vlabset was all drum machines and modular it's been nice to like give myself a
little break and have some presets and ability to easily recall things are you still using the
looper no okay no the looper's out of the mix for now because this makes that so much easier the
modular is still in the mix with the set too um but man is it fun to like write shit with this i've
like last set that i used the pyramid for i remember like every i would just after work um spend an
hour or two and always make something new every day and this is the same like i can write stuff so
quickly with this i really um it feels awesome like i used to really like the westic performer that
couldn't do polyphonic midi or anything like that and it's with the modular that was fine but this
is like i doubt i'll use the westic performer again even though it's like an awesome module on its own
right this is like so nice so you started to mention it but i presumably cut you off on this
you were talking about having the actual um what is that keyboard representation oh the ice
amorphic ice amorphic um can you basically just sit there and play that and record it good question
because it's got all these modes you can put the pads in too so you can use this ice amorphic
keyboard it's got like you know there's a live recording mode and then there's a pattern mode
where you can switch patterns but in live recording mode you've got like a keyboard you can figure
that to some degree you can play like you know cord stuff isomorphic style or you can actually
if put into a drum mode with a different pads since they're not velocity sensitive you get one um
midi output but in a chunk of pads and the different pads send different velocities
which is a really cool way to probe that idea like if they they could maybe add that deluge
if you absolutely yeah that would be a good feature um but in this isomorphic mode you just hit like
the record button on the left and you just play it um it really you know i'm not none of us are like
keyboard guys per se we've used them when we had to to like make sounds and shit like that too
test with c sounds like yeah there it is yeah like i explained the isomorphic keyboard to
step it was just like disgusted but step was like classical piano for many years too it was just
like i don't need that all right yeah but i can see these shapes and i know like if i move my hand
over here it's gonna actually sound the right way that's still a cord that red button c and i know
i can go back to that at the end of this thing like so yeah isomorphic works really well for me um
i really like it plus it's like it's this nice visual thing where there are tracks in this
live set where i know like on this first one if it's the first one there's like a sequence up on the
upper right corner i can play and it's like the blue keys on this thing it really like i'm super
visual person so the fact that the midi notes are different colors yeah and i can remember these
locations on this grid with colors like works very well for me that like my brain likes that shit
and i see the uh you got the manual uh in front of you yeah it looks like there's a lot of buttons so
you could have a pretty big spectrum of uh cords and octaves at your disposal there's it fixes like
also you know a lot of machines copying patterns or duplicating patterns are making them longer as
a painly ass this is like the easiest setup i've ever seen for that it's like so nice to
copy a pattern over to like do maintenance and move tracks around which was a little bit of a
bit on the pyramid now it's like really easy for me to restructure everything to make it the
right way because i'm sloppy or in that like i don't go like well the number two we mean midi
channel number two i don't know if that's the right sound yet so i'm just gonna like go fucking
ham until i get the right thing and try to clean it up after so it lets you do some of that it's
really easy to edit which is another bitch like on this one of the complaints people have is like
you know on the deluge i think you can set note length by just hitting this
start step and then destination yeah yeah well on the hapex that's how you do selection for
editing so you can define squares that you then want to manipulate and hit like delete or like
rotate or do these things which is nice which is cool but yeah i was that would blow my eye
set length but you just set length with a knob on this and i'm like okay hit the button you see
hit the start then use the knob you set the length and you can see it dress cool you know it's like
and they said they might come up with another way to set length but i'm like oh this is fine and i
like the ability to select things like that works really well um one thing i would think they could
add is like the ability to fold a keyboard you know kind of like in ableton where you can be like just
let me see all the notes that i selected here i don't have to jump octaves up and down but you
know i had the oxy one and i was on that pre-order for a while and i sold that and that's when i got
the squarp pre-order and um i always felt lost on the oxy one like didn't know where the fuck i was
the screen was really had that for a long time either did you know a couple months you know i
tried to make it work and just didn't like it this has two screens um which makes it kind of there's
much more information to see and it's like that editing like i know where i'm at in a sequence on
the oxy one i always felt like i was kind of lost and i didn't know where the fuck my notes were
that's kind of like the monom problem i had of like this is a contextualist grid which is cool
because it can be any context you want even though i know the context i i'm lost in this seat of
just buttons and yeah but yeah in the in the shitty reality where i could only have one piece of
gear at all i would want the habax and like a laptop yeah that would be the one thing because
it's like the most it's really like i'm learning it feels cheesy but like an instrument like it's
something i'm actually learning to play and developing some skills with again which i had a lot of muscle
memory at the pyramid so it's nice to like i just really want to invest in this thing and get better
at it it's super rewarding they fucking killed it it's so good especially for the price was good too
i think it was like 900 or something like that which is i mean that sounds like a powerhouse yeah the
pyramid was always 700 yeah i could have charged more and i still would have been like yeah yeah
that's expensive but i'll get it i'm so glad i did oh so do you still have your pyramid or both
those gone nope yeah they're gone okay yeah the last one i sold like a year ago just because i wasn't
didn't there were no live sets on the horizon too and that made me remember like damn this is
paired with the virus too and you know the virus is like 16 virus ties is but a lot of people don't
know and it's like really fucking fast to write music they it's awesome oh and the automation it's
so sweet the buttons are such a nice height that you can drag like the pyramids had like the touchpad
yeah which half of mine broke in the ones i had like it was kind of sketchy but this has like a
really nice automation screen where you can assign ccs or assign automation to the cv outs it'll smooth
the cv outs um so i send all lfo's and automation into this over cv all the time and because it worked
perfectly and then you can edit that automation after we're no that's nice yeah like and see the
sequence the note sequence underneath it overlaid so like i'm will be using this live and editing
automation live for sure just because i naturally do it all the time because it's so easy now it was
a little bit of a pain in the ass on the pyramid to do that and then you had like that touchpad and
it was just sketch and editing it was a fucking nightmare and this is like so simple now since
you have these multiple midi ends i mean can you this is weird but we haven't really talked about
this in a long time can you see getting a midi controller just for the habax no okay um mainly
and i originally thought i was going to use because i have a key step already yeah but that isomorphic
keyboard i would actually pick that over another keyboard okay so everything is everything that
you want is surfaced yeah because i used to even with the performer use the midi keyboard like
hooked into it just to like it was easier to play notes on that it was like you know pick a step
and select the note which is fine for me again i'm not like joe keyboard player here i'm just trying
to like figure out some pitches real quick and the isomorphic is easier for me especially knowing
like when you have a scale mode set to it you can play melodies where you can't really play a sour
note right right because you're forcing scales to stuff and that's like really really nice
like they really like upped everything that was wrong with the pyramid fixed every problem and
made some like incredible platform it's so good they killed it damn it sounds amazing yeah couldn't
be happier with it it's favorite sequencer ever you can even it's like flexible with time you can
kind of like time like you know like clip warping enabled and you can be back on here with midi
in like really fun ways where you can there's like a what is it called flexibility or something
like that i forget the name for it but you can like stretch sequences out like you can time stretch
sequences right what is awesome yeah which is pretty cool yeah i haven't even done it much yet but
it's like it's there yeah yeah really nice control like individual timing for each track like each
sequence is very flexible and there's some effects like it strangely lacks the midi delay that's on
the pyramid which is one of the best midi effects they haven't put that one on yet and people are
like why haven't you done that and i guess it's just on that roadmap yeah yeah probably not in time
for your show though no which is fine i can it's i can roll with it as it is right now as long as it
doesn't crash i'm thrilled exactly plus you've got the um the burden of me standing in the audience
with a barrel full of rotten tomatoes yep throwing them at you so you got bigger problems than whether
or not that's going to time stretch placed my plexi shield order already well it's a very smart
move and new designs that hopefully will support your attacks but i don't know if it's going to work
all right so great do you have anything else on your list not really um i mean i had a few other
things on the list but um didn't really have time to take notes do you want to mention patreon
great tell me more about this patreon patreon case you missed it is live as of last episode um
and i think currently we have like 13 people that have subscribed so we haven't hit our first uh
goal of 25 no we're getting closer trying to what do we promise at 25 was it 25 i believe we promised
swag yeah so we got our new rolling papers which we got quite nice rolling papers
i've looked amazing they uh they work very well and i'm picky about paper material and then we have
some stickers so once we have that 25 mark we'll send you some papers and stickers unless you don't
want papers we'll give you more stickers or whatever the fuck you want what about koozies
we've got a couple koozies kicking around still too got some koozies yeah i actually have some from
the original batch too same i've got okay so i'm sure we can wrangle up 25 koozies that's a rare
oop yeah yeah we need to do this like mpr style for the cost of one cup of coffee per month you
could support all this great content and news coverage so real quick yeah what is that voice
you're doing um is that your mpr gross that's that's your terry gross that's uh rename on tane all right
larkin page shake yeah join up get us closer to this swag goal speaking of patreon did we have
anything we want to talk about as far as our patreon's asking us to talk about do we well there were
two emails one was um i log into my email this morning yet you got email account here yeah you
know we got do yeah let me know okay we're doing this live yeah let's do a live all right so one
fucking live all right we're doing this live um one's gonna be a little we're probably not gonna do
or we're not be able to have a lot to talk about but i i will have this here any second here technology
so uh one of our one of our patreon supporters when you put out the question what we talk about
um they this is very simple one word with a period straga oh yeah shit
i figured this would be a curveball maybe we did that before we have talked about straga in the past
in fact i think we kind of drive it through the mud we should on straga we should on it pretty good
if i recall and i don't feel like my opinion on it has changed at all in the years honestly mine has
gotten worse oh really yeah um so i will i would say pull up that previous episode it should i don't
remember off the top of my head what episode number it is but we did discuss straga previously
and we all kind of determined that it was not worth the money it would be roughly like a month
after when it was announced like we went hard on it like right away right out the yeah and then
you were at one point like oh maybe it could work for five seconds then you were quickly like nah i
had that vibe again recently um i was trying to figure out like because i'm running out of
rack space and i was like i would like to have a small self-contained not necessarily since
like i don't need like a virus per se or anything that deep i just need something as like an outboard
drone creator to create textures and drones um just that could probably do pretty well yeah
straga pop back in my head and i was like oh maybe i could do straga and i listened to more and more
demos of it and it just seems like no one is able to master this thing right it just seems very
inconsistent very unwieldy yeah not really worth the money and for the price there's other options
i will also point out that like looking at like different synthesizer instagrams and youtube
channels and all that um basically every other piece of gear pops up here and there
with some regularity i have yet to see straga pop up as like a centerpiece or something like
even people using it like the zero post shows up all the ten times yeah yeah like ten times as much
like this is the o-post to some say yes whatever whatever coast ex-coast it is the absence of a
coast yes um that pops up all the time and like straga never pops up not too much no and like the
videos that i have seen even the people that are demoing it kind of like yeah i don't know why it's
making this sound but we're just rolling it you know i mean like i i think if you were going to go
with an experimental box synth to do like drones and textures you would be better off getting the
lira oh yes 100 percent agree the soma lira um i mean that also seems confusing and a lot of
people say it's a pain and you ask to dial in what you want and attune it but the results
always seem to be more rewarding for people like yeah people still love that machine even though
it confounds them whereas the straga a lot of people are like i don't know what the fuck this
thing's doing you know what i mean it's like and i've seen people use lira in a live setting and even
sort of like joyously like whoa this is doing something weird but the sounds were still delightful
and i feel like the straga should be about half the price if it was half the price
i would be more inclined to give it a whirl yeah but it seems like you're paying the
alisandre quartini name tax which is what drives that price i think we talked about that um
oh yeah initially when like we first started talking when we talked about it what is it like
600 599 oh i would pay 399 maybe tops for a straga you know yeah firebox for a little
inconsistent experimental soundbox that i only used at home and like maybe got something cool i
recorded accidentally zero coast is underbox less it's kind of surprising to me which i think it
would be a lot more useful yeah that's what i would want because it doesn't have the quartini name tax
or you gotta point it to the tax um yeah i don't know yeah my opinion of straga i don't think it's
changed if anyone wants to send this one to to borrow and put through its paces maybe that'll
change our mind and prove us wrong yeah but as it stands now i'm not taking that leap or spinning my
hard-earned dollars on us and we've shown a malleability to changing our beliefs like we
are sure routinely admit that we were wrong and change our opinion so we're not we're not stubborn
yeah you can send us one and we might do it spaces we will yes so there's another message we got
if you be game to an open end to the question it would be great to hear each of you describe
your most fondly remembered creative session or process oh shit oh that's a good fucking question
really good question yeah off the top of my head i would probably say like the first week i spent
with the overstayer modular channel that was like a game changer like because when i started playing
with that thing that was also where i was at like a creative low point i just wasn't feeling a lot
of inspiration um and then i think you know finally arrived um i was like okay i'm not really feeling
creative right now but i'll just try to learn this thing and it just kind of like made me feel
inspired it was like inspiring to work with it was kind of a game changer um the latest release
like the the album that i just put out you know and taco was the split with kevin like that wouldn't
exist if it wasn't for me trying to learn that thing like the the first you know me trying to
learn it ended up yielding results and i started recording and recording and it was a lot of fun
very inspirational and a lot of those chunks that i recorded ended up in that album um so it's a
very fun memory of me of like that box was like the first thing that i ever purchased that felt like
if i had the engineering know-how this is what i would create right you know as like a distortion
saturation box it was a fucking orgasmic dream to to work with that that's what pops into my brain
i've got uh i've got two answers um first off um is working with Nick
with narwhorz throat stuff there have been times when we've been sitting in your house
where i am giggling maniacal where i'm like i don't we did it we landed on something and it's
you know hours of work and it's just everything just comes together in this way that is just
um and i rarely ever get that by myself at home and so that's that's my first answer um as far as
like just a purely creative like holy shit like just it's the giggling that uh that i remember
fondly like those spots it's just like wow exactly and then the second one is um two times over the
last like 20 years i've taken on like sort of a weird engineering challenge and i got it to work
and i vividly remember like i am basically the opposite of a jock um but both times like i did
this thing of like i like i'm like one was getting a gameboy to come to send data to a windows pc
and the second one was recently where i basically tried to recreate the lebanets binary system
with our doeno and both times when i got to that point where like i actually got that first second
when it worked and um this is shameful i i i'm not proud of this but i literally did like a fist
pump like yes have either of you seen me do that ever so it this is this shameful secret in my house
of me like yeah uh doing a phospatic one too like you did it oh and and impulsive like like i
didn't i couldn't stop myself from doing it like i didn't stop and go well now's the time to fist pump
it was literally like yes and then stop and going all right well i need to check why that happens but
um so yeah the sort of like those um crossing those sort of like big engineering challenge
chasms um and doing something like this may not ultimately work and then working on it for a
couple weeks and getting it to work has been uh those have been big yeah those are my those are my
two answers yeah i would say to you again like working with you um on that stuff and especially
editing like it's always like really easy for us to sit down on a computer and edit tracks together
and that could be you know like a difficult or it's a challenging part of the process
absolutely yeah but it's always like really easy to do that and then the other one that's like
super notable for me would be getting the electron machine drum which was like a huge
change in many things for me um working back with hardware again becoming obsessed with drum
machines because that was like my first like real i had a 505 when i was like you know 18 or
something like that but that's like not anything near it but getting that most expensive thing
i'd purchased the time i got like a credit card to get it because it obviously didn't have
that much cash to get it and um just like i would get home for weeks i would get home from work and
i would look up it would be 10 or 11 o'clock and i was still in my work clothes hadn't eaten i was
like oh fuck i did it again because i was just like my brain meld with that thing you know and that
was just like a different change for how i worked on everything that like everything since then
has been different for me and what i focus on and that like really got me into playing live again
a number of other things yeah this day i don't think i can look at a machine drum and not think
of you yeah right yeah yeah like i just associate machine drum with Nick at this point yeah it's still
a still wouldn't mind if one swung around my way again someday but i know enough to about it to
know that like it's not yeah you've outgrown it yeah a little bit like it would be fun to have it to
add to accents to tracks but not for the price that they go for now it seems to like it just
seems to keep filling up like even the basic first model is like over a thousand dollars yeah yeah
yeah very true but uh definitely changed my brain for sure and how i thought about things like
parameter locks and it got along well with that system of working nice well thank you to our
patreon uh those are good questions good questions yeah questions no whippings this month
well yeah that's drastic yeah that's some whippings this month less less than usual
[Music]
(drum roll)